(cheerful jingle)
We have two new string methods
available to us, padStart and padEnd.
They don't do a whole lot,
but pad the start of a string
or pad the end of a string,
if it's not long enough.
So, if I take something like wes
and I do padStart,
I want to pad the start maybe six.
What it's going to do is
because wes is three characters long,
it's going to take the six
and put in three spaces in front of it.
Same with the padEnd,
it will put three at the end of it.
It takes a second argument,
you can tell it what to pad it with.
So, I could pad it with Xs,
or let's do some poop emojis.
And whoa!
That's actually kind of neat!
What happened there?
Well, the poop emoji is technically not one character.
It actually takes up two characters.
So, what happened there is we got one, two
to get one full poop,
and then we got a half a poop,
a little nug (laughs) in there.
And if you ever have to deal string length and emojis,
it's actually a little bit harder.
You have to use some external packages there.
So, I wouldn't recommend padding it with an emoji.
But, generally what you do is
you do something like an underscore,
or just a space, which is actually the default.
So, why is that useful?
Well, let's say you've got an array of strings here
and you want to right align all of those items.
Well, all you need to do there is,
let's just say strings.foreach
and for each string, we'll just say str,
we're going to console.log.
Let's just console log the string.
And when I give it a refresh, you'll see,
actually let me make this a little bit wider
so we can see everything.
It's all right aligned
and the string just goes as long as it wants.
However, if I were to take that string
and pad the start of it
with something like maybe 30 characters,
not sure how long this is,
we'll tackle that in a second,
we're gonna see that they all line up
on the right-hand side,
and that's great if you're doing any sort of console output
where you need to make a table
or you need to align things underneath a title
that you have there.
So that's looping over it.
How could I actually figure out what to padStart here
based on the longest one?
Well, first we could make a new array of length.
So we could say
const length is equal to strings.sort.
And we will sort each string
based on the string length,
and let's just console.log the lengths there,
see what we got.
So that will give us an array of all of our items.
The longest one being the first one.
And then we could go even further there
and to map over each one,
and then just return the string length.
And of course we could do this in a single reduce
if we'd like, as well.
And then we have an actual array of lengths
and then here we could
maybe just change this to longestString
and then we would just grab the
first thing out of that zero.
And then, instead of hard coding 30,
we would just say longestString,
and that'd be a nice little function
where you could pass in an array
and it would bring it back to you.
So there we go.
That's as long as we want.
But, if I were to add a fourth one
that was extremely long,
so maybe something like
really, really, really, really long,
Then, it's going to be really, really, really long
and it's going to pick that up.
Where this is also useful if you have showNumbers.
So, on our podcast, SyntaxFM,
we have showNumbers and we make,
we expect to go up to 999 shows
and then call it quits.
So, (laughs) I'm joking, I have no idea.
But, we like to do 007, 008, 009, 010.
So, that's kind of how we like to display it, right?
So, the showNumber is stored in a actual number.
But, when we wanna display it,
we wanna put a zero in front of it
and display it as a string.
Where that's useful is
if you have showNumber 1 and you want to pad the start of it
with let's say we're going up to three characters,
and you wanna, let's just start with that.
That's obviously gonna give you three spaces,
but you can pad it with a zero,
and that will give you 00.
Obviously, it's going to take the number here,
if you pass it a number
it will call two string on it,
and convert it over to that.
Another thing here is
if I were to say hi,
what is it going to do?
It's going to say hi1.
Why?
Because if you have two characters in here
and it needs to fill two spots,
it's going to take the first two characters out of that.
So, if I have 10,
it's going to say hihihihihi,
or if I have something like wes,
it's going to say wesweswes three times,
'cause it needs nine spaces
and then put the one in there.
So, it's not going to repeat the thing that you put in here,
but it's going to take whatever string you want
and keep dumping that in
until there is no more space left.
Obviously, we have padEnd as well,
which can be used for tacking on the end.
These are not to be used for any sort of stylistic approach
unless you're doing,
trying to dump something into a terminal or a console.
They're purely meant for when you need to
actually tack on more blank characters,
or any type of character, onto your string.
So, not all that useful,
but, you do run into it every now and then.
Hopefully you can put that in your back pocket
and pull it out when you need it.